INTRODUOTION. xxxvii

characteristica of a period oi renaissanoe. But the connexion between
Virgil and Apollonius is closer than could have been presumed from

any mere general consideratione. After the Iliad and Odyssey‚ the
Argonautica is the only poem which the intelligent criticism oi
antiqnity declares tc have furnished au actual model to the author of
the Aeneid, and the similarity is one which the reader'oi the two
works does not take long to discover. Not only is the passion of
Medea in Apollonius’ Third Book confessedly the oonnterpart of the
menon of Dido in Virgil’s Fourth‚ but the instances are iar from few
where Virgil has conveyed au incident from his Alexandrian pre·
decessor, altering and adapting‚ hut not wholly disguising it. The
departure of J ason imm his father and mother resembles the departure
of Pallas from Evander3 the song oi Orpheus is contracted into the
song of Iopas, es it had already been expanded into the song of
Silenns; the reception of the Argonants by Hypsipyle is like the
reception of the Trojans by Dido, and the parting of Jason from the
Lemnian princeos reappears, though iu very different colours, in
the parting of Aeneas from the queen oi Carthage3 the mythical
representatione in Jason’s scari answer to the historical representa-
tions which distinguished the shield oi Aeneas from that of Achilles;
the combat of Pollux with Amycus is reprodnced in the combat of
Entellus with Dares3 the harpies of Virgil are the harpies of Apol·
leuius, while the deliverauce oi Phineus hythe Argonauts may have
turnished a hint ior the deliversnce oi Achemenides by the Trojans,
an act oi mercy which has another parallel in the deliveranoe of the
sons of Phrixns3 Phineus’ predictions are like the predictions of
Helenus3 the cave oi Acheron in Asia Minor suggests the cave of
Avernus in Italy3 Evander and Pallas appear once more in Lycus and
Dascylns3 Here addresses Thetis as J uno oddresses Jnturua; Triton
gives the same vigorous aid in launching the Argo that he gives to
the stranded vessels oi Aeneas, or that Portunus gives to the ship
oi Cloanthus in the Sicilian rsoe. Minor resemblanoes oi thought

or expression are easily detected by a very cursory perusa] of the
Argomutiea I have myself noted at least fifty oi them, which will be

found in their places in my notes on the Aeneid. Altogether it might
notnmlly be supposed that we possess what every critic would admit
to be an invaluable measure, a poem oocupying a middle position
hetwuen the Homeric epioe and the Aeneid, and making the transition
hom the one to the other intelligible.

YetI am greatly mistaken if the reader of the Argonautica will find
any such expectatione fullilled in any adequate sense. 'Phe similarities
ol detail are there, doubtless more thou I have enumerated or dis·
covered: but the poem, taken as a whole, does not remind us of the

 

